
ML Topics

stats basics
kernel density
maximum likelihood
MLE vs MAP
no free lunch theorem
matplotlib, seaborn basics(from safarionline)

maths 
numpy broadcasting
singular Value decomposition svd
multinomial distribution 
Expected value
Deterministic
Taylor Series
Eigen Vectors, covariance matrix
kernel trick
Lagrange
Gaussian Mixture models
Partitioned Gaussian

machine learning
GPU
pipeline
parametric-and-nonparametric-models-in-machine-learning
Label encoding ordinal vs label encoding
Feature Selection Techniques in Machine Learning
dimensionality reduction 
curse of dimensionality
optimization
loss or Error or Cost function
gradient descent 
stochastic GD 
sub-gradients
Exploding and Vanishing Gradient
cross entropy
K-Fold
hinge loss
bias and variance trade off
feature importance
Feature Scaling
Techniques to handle imbalance data
confusion matrix
roc-auc, accuracy paradox
hyperparameters
bootstrap and bagging, ensemble
A/B Testing
SoftMax function

machine learning algorithms
Linear Regression
K-means
ridge and lasso and elasticnet regression
principle component analysis pca
svm
svm dual problem
RandomForest
xgboost
catboost 
lgbm classifier

probabilistic machine learning
machine learning in finance
Hedging in machine learning finance
conjugate prior
Monte-Carlo
Markov Chains
probabilistic Graph model
timeseries
State-space modeling

Reinforcement learning

ML system Design
Recommendation systems
Ranking Application
Fraud Detection Model


deep learning 
convergence algorithm for perceptron
very good summary of gradient for deep learning https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gupSH0MU7vs&list=PLZ2ps__7DhBZVxMrSkTIcG6zZBDKUXCnM
contours

deep learning Algorithms





ML Tips and interview tips
Take regular breaks between major subjects and always revise, write and quiz yourself. This will help avoid brain fog and help in retrieval.
Remember to take notes and have quiz like questions for every major topic. Remember the splunk power user certification, where you took the quiz for each topic  about an hour before the exam and you could answer almost 40% of the questions. Although I prepared only a week for this certificate.

Note down all the models and try to revise or go over good videos (like NPTEL) on each model. Also try to understand the usecase for each model. During interviews, they ask which model and why you choose that model.

Shuffling may be a bad idea in some contexts—for example, if you are working on time series data (such as
stock market prices or weather conditions).

Remember when you create the features matrix, ensure you have the right set of features, I remember in Kaggle, people simply take all the columns as features (except for the target column) which does not make sense. Example: if there is a customer data with different columns like customer_id,credit_score, salary, and you need to predict if a credit needs to be approved or not based on his customer_Data, the customer_id column does not make sense to be in the features matrix as it is just a random number and does not predict anything. 

from hands on ml with scikit-learn Since the ROC curve is so similar to the precision/recall (PR) curve, you may wonder how to decide which one to use. As a rule
of thumb, you should prefer the PR curve whenever the positive class is rare or when you care more about the false positives than
the false negatives. Otherwise, use the ROC curve. For example, looking at the previous ROC curve (and the ROC AUC score), you
may think that the classifier is really good. But this is mostly because there are few positives  compared to the negatives
. In contrast, the PR curve makes it clear that the classifier has room for improvement (the curve could be closer to the top left corner). 


As ML is so vast, always refer the top 50 machine learning interview questions to understand what topics to prepare.
Able to code a model from scratch.
Ensure you have steps for data cleaning for categorical variables with different encoding.
make sure you have  a df.copy() after cleanup, so that you dont have to keep running it incase of further errors with model or plotting etc.
Use ML terminologies. Ex: weights for the co-efficients of ridge regression

Expectation of a deterministic value is always the same value itself. (Bias-Variance trade off)

if you take a correlation of the data with features named as v1,v2 etc as most of the finance data does not display the feature names and observe most of the features are not correlated with each other. This corroborates the fact that a PCA was previously performed on the data.









DSC-550

What is NLP?
What is meant by sentiment analysis?
What are some prebuilt Python libraries to perform sentiment analysis?
Why is it sometimes necessary to preprocess text?
What is tf-idf vectorization?
What are some methods for dealing with categorical features when building a model?
What is a regression model?
What are some common types of regression models?
What is the difference between a regression model and a classification model?
Do you consider logistic regression as a regression model?
What are some common metrics for evaluating regression models?
How do we handle a categorical feature when we are building a regression model?
What are lasso and ridge regression?
What is meant by a classification model?
What are some common types of classification models?
What is the difference between a regression model and a classification model?
What are some common metrics for evaluating classification models?
Is accuracy always the best metric for evaluating classification models?
What are precision, recall, and the F1-score of a classification model?
Why is it important to take the context of the problem into consideration when deciding the most important metric(s) to evaluate you model?
What is the difference between supervised and unsupervised learning?
How do you evaluate unsupervised learning models?
What is clustering?
What are the different types of clustering?
Compare KNN and the K-means algorithms?











